flow: Add flow component for blackbox exporter (#3083)
grafana/agent: docs/sources/flow/reference/components/prometheus.exporter.blackbox.md

---
# NOTE(rfratto): the title below has zero-width spaces injected into it to
# prevent it from overflowing the sidebar on the rendered site. Be careful when
# modifying this section to retain the spaces.
#
# Ideally, in the future, we can fix the overflow issue with css rather than
# injecting special characters.

title: prometheus.exporter.blackbox
---

# prometheus.exporter.blackbox
The `prometheus.exporter.blackbox` component embeds
[`blackbox_exporter`](https://github.com/prometheus/blackbox_exporter). This allows
the collection of blackbox metrics (probes) and exposing them as Prometheus metrics.

## Usage

```river
prometheus.exporter.blackbox "LABEL" {
}
```

## Arguments
The following arguments can be used to configure the exporter's behavior.
Omitted fields take their default values.

Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------
`config_file`                 | `string`       | Blackbox configuration file with custom modules. | | yes

> `probe_timeout_offset`        | `float`        | Offset to subtract from timeout in seconds when probing targets  | 0.5 | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`probe_timeout_offset`        | `float`        | Offset in seconds to subtract from timeout when probing targets.  | 0.5 | no
```

> If `config_file` is a YAML file with definition of blackbox modules to use. See https://github.com/prometheus/blackbox_exporter/blob/master/example.yml for more details how to generate custom file.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `config_file` argument optionally points to a YAML defining which blackbox_exporter modules to use. See [blackbox_exporter]( https://github.com/prometheus/blackbox_exporter/blob/master/example.yml) for details on how to generate a config file.
```

> The `config_file` argument optionally points to a YAML defining which blackbox_exporter modules to use. See [blackbox_exporter]( https://github.com/prometheus/blackbox_exporter/blob/master/example.yml) for details on how to generate a config file.

Reviewer: Apologies if I'm unaware of a convention, but should this include "file"?
```suggestion
The `config_file` argument optionally points to a YAML file defining which blackbox_exporter modules to use. See [blackbox_exporter]( https://github.com/prometheus/blackbox_exporter/blob/master/example.yml) for details on how to generate a config file.
```

## Blocks

The following blocks are supported inside the definition of
`prometheus.exporter.blackbox` to configure collector-specific options:

Hierarchy | Name | Description | Required
--------- | ---- | ----------- | --------
blackbox_target | [blackbox_target][] | Configures a blackbox target. | yes

[blackbox_target]: #blackbox_target-block

### blackbox_target block
Name | Type | Description | Default | Required
---- | ---- | ----------- | ------- | --------

> `name` | `string` | Name of a blackbox_target. | | yes

Reviewer 2: Do these names have to be unique? If so, it might make sense to make the name a label so you have 

```river 
blackbox_target "example" {
  address = "..."
}

blackbox_target "grafana" {
  address = ... 
}
```

---
# NOTE(rfratto): the title below has zero-width spaces injected into it to
# prevent it from overflowing the sidebar on the rendered site. Be careful when
# modifying this section to retain the spaces.
#
# Ideally, in the future, we can fix the overflow issue with css rather than
# injecting special characters.

title: prometheus.exporter.blackbox
---

# prometheus.exporter.blackbox
The `prometheus.exporter.blackbox` component embeds
[`blackbox_exporter`](https://github.com/prometheus/blackbox_exporter). This allows
the collection of blackbox metrics (probes) and exposing them as Prometheus metrics.

## Usage

```river
prometheus.exporter.blackbox "LABEL" {

>   config_file = "PATH_BLACKBOX_CONFIG_FILE"
>   target "TARGET_NAME" {
>     address = "TARGET_ADDRESS" 
>   }

Reviewer 2: nit: applying formatting that `agent fmt` would apply:

```suggestion
  config_file = "PATH_BLACKBOX_CONFIG_FILE"
  
  target "TARGET_NAME" {
    address = "TARGET_ADDRESS" 
  }
```

`address` | `string` | The address of the target to probe. | | yes
`module`| `string` | Blackbox module to use to probe. | `""` | no

## Exported fields
The following fields are exported and can be referenced by other components.

Name      | Type                | Description
--------- | ------------------- | -----------
`targets` | `list(map(string))` | The targets that can be used to collect `blackbox` metrics.

For example, `targets` can either be passed to a `prometheus.relabel`
component to rewrite the metrics' label set, or to a `prometheus.scrape`
component that collects the exposed metrics.

## Component health

`prometheus.exporter.blackbox` is only reported as unhealthy if given
an invalid configuration. In those cases, exported fields retain their last
healthy values.

## Debug information

`prometheus.exporter.blackbox` does not expose any component-specific
debug information.

## Debug metrics

`prometheus.exporter.blackbox` does not expose any component-specific
debug metrics.

## Example

This example uses a [`prometheus.scrape` component][scrape] to collect metrics
from `prometheus.exporter.blackbox`:

```river
prometheus.exporter.blackbox "example" { 

> 	config_file        = "blackbox_modules.yml"
> 	target "example" {
> 		address = "http://example.com"
> 		module = "http_2xx"
> 	}
> 	target "grafana" {
> 		address = "http://grafana.com"
> 		module = "http_2xx"
> 	}	

Reviewer 2: nit: applying formatting that `agent fmt` would apply:

```suggestion
	config_file = "blackbox_modules.yml"
	
	target "example" {
		address = "http://example.com"
		module  = "http_2xx"
	}
	
	target "grafana" {
		address = "http://grafana.com"
		module  = "http_2xx"
	}	
```

---
# NOTE(rfratto): the title below has zero-width spaces injected into it to
# prevent it from overflowing the sidebar on the rendered site. Be careful when
# modifying this section to retain the spaces.
#
# Ideally, in the future, we can fix the overflow issue with css rather than
# injecting special characters.

title: prometheus.exporter.blackbox
---

# prometheus.exporter.blackbox

> The `prometheus.exporter.blackbox` component embeds
> [`blackbox_exporter`](https://github.com/prometheus/blackbox_exporter). This allows
> the collection of blackbox metrics (probes) and exposing them as Prometheus metrics.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `prometheus.exporter.blackbox` component embeds
[`blackbox_exporter`](https://github.com/prometheus/blackbox_exporter). `blackbox_exporter` lets you collect blackbox metrics (probes) and expose them as Prometheus metrics.
```
